I'll start by just showing some of the
examples of what you can do with WebGL.
First, I'll start with my own work,
just some of the things I've done.
And then I'm gonna explore more
some of the work in the wild and
sort of what we could do with WebGL.
And this is kind of just
to start with my own stuff.
This is where I sort of got
into it is this project.
It's called Audiograph.
It's like a music visualizer
project that I did in
2016 around a single album,
a album by Pilot Priest.
And it's a fairly straightforward
visualizer is just a looping
graphic that's constantly evolving,
constantly changing.
And it's constantly changing colors
in response to the beat of the song.
You can hit space, and
you can see the next track, and
you can cycle through the whole album.
But this is all using WebGL to
draw these shapes, these polygons,
and these triangles.
And because it's using WebGL, it actually
runs pretty quickly, even on a browser,
even on a mobile phone.
That's kind of the goal for today is
to create these real time applications.
They could respond to audio or
they could respond to user input, or
whatever, really.
And then when I was working at Jam3,
which is a agency in Toronto,
I started to build these more
complex systems with WebGL.
So this is one little
tech demo that we did for
Mozilla for their GDC in 2016.
This was shown as a tech demo for the
browser showing WebGL 2 actually, which
is a more recent version of WebGL, which
is still being included in many browsers.
And still doesn't have the full support
that we'd really like to use it
everywhere, but it's getting pretty close.
But, yeah, this is just another tech demo
that I worked on, and it's much more rich.
It had to involve a team of developers,
a team of 3D artists and
us working closely together to
sort of produce this full thing.
It's all real time interactive, etc.
Riffing on that,
here's another demo that I worked on.
This was a simple sort of
minimal web toy that would
appear when you visited tendril.com or
tendril.ca.
They're a studio for design and
illustration animation in Toronto.
And they wanted this little toy
that you could interact with it.
And this could have been
done maybe with some SVG but
it wouldn't render in this efficient way.
You wouldn't be able to get
this kind of fluid motion.
You wouldn't be able to get these
sort of interactive gradients and
some of the texture that appears leaf.
And some of these little details
would be really hard to achieve with
technology like HTML, or
CSS or even plain Canvas 2D.
So this is where WebGL would be really
useful is just to bring in this extra
detail.
And then another thing is bringing
this out of just the scope of the web
browser but
also into more physical installations.
Because we're just accessing the GPU, we
could create an AR experience using WebGL.
And this was in KIKK festival in Belgium.
There was several different artists and we
all got a chance to build a Three.js and
WebGL augmented reality sort of piece
that would then be placed in
a specific spot in the city.
And visitors that are at this conference,
this KIKK Festival they can go around,
download an app and see the actual ARPs.
So mine is in this video here, somewhere.
But there were several different
artists and we all had a chance to
do a different output, and it's all
using Three.js, WebGL under the hood.
[MUSIC]
And the nice thing is once you start to
learn these concepts of WebGL and 3D,
you can actually apply them
with different software.
So sometimes you might find
a situation where a different program,
like Unity, is gonna be better
than working straight on the web.
But you can quite often just transfer the
knowledge that you've learned with WebGL
right into that other software because
it all sort of works the same way.
Ultimately, it's all just
using the GPU in the same way.
And then continue to move
away from browsers and
more into this physical space.
This was an installation that I put on in
Toronto just for one night at the AGO.
It was this connect based installation
which means that there was like a skeletal
motion tracking device.
And you'd be able to wave your arms and
stuff inside of this installation.
It would sort of project your virtual
form within this fourth dimension or
within this nth dimension.
And so that's just showing
how you can use WebGL in
more of a interactive physical
installation setting.
It's totally doable there as well.
And then moving completely away from
these digital outputs, but into prints.
So you can use WebGL to create high
resolution print artwork that you
might just want to get framed.
This is a data artwork which is
visualizing ten different cities and
the skyscraper heights.
Those different cities mapped to these
sort of generative crystal structures.
The work was done in
JavaScript with WebGL.
And that would allow me to really quickly
visualize these generative geometries.
And then I would export from WebGL,
I would export these geometries as OBJ
files, and then bring those into blender.
And that allowed me to actually
render this high resolution print
with some materials and
some qualities that are really hard
to achieve with just real time.
But this is sort of showing
how WebGL isn't always just
making something that's real time.
It's just more using the GPU for
various tasks,
maybe creating complex geometries and
then exporting those as OBJ.
And there's just an example to print.
Okay, so that's kind of my stuff and
then just a couple examples
of cool projects in the wild.
So this one is really fun.
It's OUIGO, Let's Play.
You can test all these in the browser.
It's just a pinball game as part
of a campaign for a train company,
I think in France, and
it's like super performant.
It runs on a mobile phone.
It's just like super detailed.
The animations are really crisp.
And then this one, you guys should try
this on your computers, it's really fun.
So this is Bruno Simon, he just put
out this portfolio pretty recently.
You can just search bruno-simon.com.
And it basically just
gives you this little car,
that you can hit,
explore his portfolio here.
And you can actually go down and
see some of his projects.
And open those up, and see some of
the work he's done just by driving
around this little town, this little city.
So yeah, this is another great example
of WebGL, just super interactive,
super real time.
And when he put this out there's a sort
of splash that happened on Twitter.
It's pretty addicting and it's it's fun to
just drive around this little portfolio.
Yeah.
This artist, Richard Vijgenn, I don't know
how to say his last name, unfortunately.
But he's doing a lot of work as
well with WebGL and with Three.js.
And so
this is a data artwork that's showing
the spectrum of radio waves
that are in the air, I guess.
And he's got a radio sensor of some kind,
some sort of hardware sensor.
And it's using WebSockets to
communicate with a Three.js app and
sending the data from the hardware
sensor into this visual.
So you can actually go in and explore
this in real time and see how it's sort
of visualizing and mapping this data
into this large installation piece.
>> When you're projecting
on a wall like that,
is it just like a browser
full of screen or?
>> So this, I would probably do
it as a browser full screen.
You'd have to set up your output
resolution to a pretty wide resolution.
And depending on the setup,
it could just be like a big LED screen,
it could be just a projector,
just like the projector we're seeing here.
Or it could be sometimes
multiple projectors.
And you're still ultimately just
using a computer with an HDMI but
then sort of there's a more of
an AV setup that would be used.
And it often isn't even part
of the role of the developer,
you would probably work
with an AV specialist.
And they would do some of the mapping
with multiple projectors so
that it all stitches
up into a large peace.
And then Active Theory, if you aren't
familiar with active theory you should
definitely start following them.
They're doing tons of work with WebGL and
they're really pushing the limits.
Definitely check out their work.
This one is using hardware sensors like
heartbeat monitors and things like
that that react to the user as they're
interacting with this installation.
But they also have this web component,
this web version which, obviously,
doesn't have hardware sensors, but
it's still pretty cool to look at.
Okay, and then lastly, I just wanted to
show a couple of examples of not WebGL.
But the important thing is to sort of show
that these could've been made with WebGL
as well.
A lot of times,
I'll show somebody a project and
they'll be blown away that
it was made with WebGL.
They won't realise that some of the stuff
that they're seeing could actually be done
as well with WebGL.
So this is one that was shown
at Barbican fairly recently.
It's called Future You and
it was by Universal Everything.
And it's another Connect based Microsoft
Connect based installation where you step
in front of the installation and
it tracks your motion.
And it creates this sort of
3D sculpture that reacts and
responds to your movements.
And so something like this could have
definitely been done with WebGL as well.
And yeah, this one in particular
down with Unity, but that's quite
often a decision that's made based on
the team or based on their skills.
So just because you see something that's
done with Unity doesn't mean you can't
also do the same thing in WebGL.
And then this is Joanie Lemercier.
So Joanie Lemercier is an artist that's
quite often working with light and
projection.
Sometimes working with pen plotters and
more prints as well.
But one of the nice things here is that
this is ultimately a screen based work.
So at the end of it all, it's just some
software that's running on his computer.
And it's just a screen based visual.
It could've been done with WebGL or
maybe it was done with something else.
But the,
the point is this rendering is simply
just running as a screen based work.
And then he's projecting
the rendering onto a curtain
of water particles,
like a mist of water droplets.
And that's what creates this sort
of holographic look when you stand
in front of it.
And so this is like this beautiful project
that really shows that even though
something is screen based, it doesn't need
to be projected just as a flat screen.
You can get really interesting
with projection and
projection mapping from screen based work.
And just sort of riffing on that,
this is NONOTAK.
They are a music and sort of visual duo.
They do these really crazy
audio visual performances.
And so a lot of their work is
them making music live but
then a lot of their work is also
presenting it in this really unique way.
So it's not just a screen behind them
that's showing some cool VJ visuals, but
they actually set up the projectors.
They set up the screens in such a way that
it creates this really unique output,
this really unique look.
So here they'd have multiple
screens next to each other.
Each of these is a semi-transparent
surface that can be projected through.
And because of the placement, because of
the way they're using this projection
mapping techniques, it creates this
really nice repeating sort of pattern.
[MUSIC]
I'm just skipping forward to this light
speculation performance that they did.
They created a sort of triangular prism or
it could also be maybe a cube.
But in this case, it looks like
a triangular prism of screens around them.
And so then they would project
onto those screens, and
they'd be sort of contained within
this box of light and visuals.
But ultimately, this is again,
a screen based work.
So they're taking a software
that's outputting triangles or
outputting lines, or shapes,
or some sort of rendering.
It could be WebGL, but this is more
likely some other software, but
it could just as I've been
WebGL to output this.